# Reference

<!-- DO NOT EDIT: This document was generated by Puppet Strings -->

## Table of Contents

### Resource types

* [`windows_dns_client_nrpt_rule`](#windows_dns_client_nrpt_rule): Manage NRPT rules on Windows
* [`windows_network_route`](#windows_network_route): Manage Net routes on Windows

## Resource types

### <a name="windows_dns_client_nrpt_rule"></a>`windows_dns_client_nrpt_rule`

Manage NRPT rules on Windows

#### Properties

The following properties are available in the `windows_dns_client_nrpt_rule` type.

##### `comment`

Stores administrator notes.

##### `da_enable`

Valid values: `true`, `false`

Indicates the rule state for DirectAccess.

##### `da_ipsec_encryption_type`

Valid values: `none`, `low`, `medium`, `high`, `None`, `Low`, `Medium`, `High`

IPsec encryption setting for DirectAccess.

##### `da_ipsec_required`

Valid values: `true`, `false`

Indicates that IPsec is required for DirectAccess.

##### `da_name_servers`

DNS servers to query when DirectAccess is enabled.

##### `da_proxy_server_name`

Proxy server to use when connecting to the Internet.

##### `da_proxy_type`

Valid values: `noproxy`, `usedefault`, `useproxyname`, `NoProxy`, `UseDefault`, `UseProxyName`

Proxy server type to be used.

##### `display_name`

Optional friendly name for the NRPT rule.

##### `dnssec_enable`

Valid values: `true`, `false`

Enables DNSSEC on the rule.

##### `dnssec_ipsec_encryption_type`

Valid values: `none`, `low`, `medium`, `high`, `None`, `Low`, `Medium`, `High`

IPsec tunnel encryption setting.

##### `dnssec_ipsec_required`

Valid values: `true`, `false`

DNS client must set up an IPsec connection to the DNS server.

##### `dnssec_validation_required`

Valid values: `true`, `false`

DNSSEC validation is required.

##### `ensure`

Valid values: `present`, `absent`

How to ensure this nrpt rule (`present` or `absent`)

Default value: `present`

##### `ipsec_trust_authority`

Certification authority to validate the IPsec channel.

##### `name_encoding`

Valid values: `disable`, `utf8withmapping`, `utf8withoutmapping`, `punycode`, `disable`, `Utf8WithMapping`, `Utf8WithoutMapping`, `Punycode`

Encoding format for host names in the DNS query.

##### `name_servers`

DNS servers to which the DNS query is sent when DirectAccess is disabled.

##### `namespace`

DNS namespace.

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `windows_dns_client_nrpt_rule` type.

* [`name`](#-windows_dns_client_nrpt_rule--name)
* [`provider`](#-windows_dns_client_nrpt_rule--provider)

##### <a name="-windows_dns_client_nrpt_rule--name"></a>`name`

namevar

Specifies the DNS Client NRPT rule name.

##### <a name="-windows_dns_client_nrpt_rule--provider"></a>`provider`

The specific backend to use for this `windows_dns_client_nrpt_rule` resource. You will seldom need to specify this ---
Puppet will usually discover the appropriate provider for your platform.

### <a name="windows_network_route"></a>`windows_network_route`

Manage Net routes on Windows

#### Properties

The following properties are available in the `windows_network_route` type.

##### `address_family`

Valid values: `ipv4`, `ipv6`, `IPv4`, `IPv6`

The IP address family (IPv4 or IPv6).

##### `ensure`

Valid values: `present`, `absent`

How to ensure this net route (`present` or `absent`)

Default value: `present`

##### `interface_alias`

Specifies an alias of network interfaces. The cmdlet modifies IP routes for the interfaces that have the aliases that you specify.

##### `interface_index`

The index of the network interface.

##### `interface_metric`

The metric of the associated interface.

##### `next_hop`

The next hop IP address for the route.

##### `publish`

Valid values: `No`, `Yes`, `Age`

Whether the route is published in router advertisements.

##### `route_metric`

The route metric used to prioritize routes.

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `windows_network_route` type.

* [`destination_prefix`](#-windows_network_route--destination_prefix)
* [`provider`](#-windows_network_route--provider)

##### <a name="-windows_network_route--destination_prefix"></a>`destination_prefix`

The destination network prefix (e.g., 0.0.0.0/0).

##### <a name="-windows_network_route--provider"></a>`provider`

The specific backend to use for this `windows_network_route` resource. You will seldom need to specify this --- Puppet will
usually discover the appropriate provider for your platform.

